>> NASA Chief Bill Nelson says
looking for extraterrestrial
life is part of NASA's mission,
as top NASA scientists call
for a detailed system for
classifying extraterrestrial
life.
This is "Gaia News."
[MUSIC PLAYING]
In a huge departure
from the US government's
historical treatment of UFOs and
possible extraterrestrial life,
NASA Administrator Bill
Nelson said in an interview
with University of
Virginia's Larry Sabato:
>> Who am I to say that planet
Earth is the only location
of a life form that is civilized
and organized like ours?
>> Meantime, top NASA scientists
are calling for a scaled system
for reporting any evidence
of extraterrestrial life,
modeled after NASA's progressive
scale of technological
readiness level already in use
for new space flight equipment.
Instead of the binary
life-or-no-life way of looking
at off-planet discoveries, these
NASA scientists are suggesting
a more nuanced way of
reporting what they find.
Cheryl Costa,
retired journalist,
UFO statistician, and author
of the "UFO Sightings Desk
Reference," thinks
it's about time.
>> I think it's long overdue.
They've been talking about
this stuff for years.
They know that there have
been unidentified things
in our skies since
biblical times.
The fact that they're
finally owning up
to the idea of classifying
alien life, their scale
is going to have to run the
range of organic molecules
all the way up to
sentient beings.
So it needs to be
a pretty big scale.
And it's nice to start
seeing bona fide scientists
looking at this issue and
saying, OK, we need to do this.
>> And what about NASA
Administrator Bill
Nelson's comments?
>> I think it's refreshing
that the NASA chief came out
and said, yeah, maybe, on the
UFOs, OK, and off-world life,
OK?
I think they still know more
than they're telling us.
I'm happy NASA's coming
out with this stuff.
I think they're trying to feed
it to us a little spoonful
at a time.
They don't want to
scare the populace.
>> This seems to be a big
change from the past when,
during the Cold War, the
government ran a concerted
effort to discredit anyone
who spoke out about UFOs.
What was the mood like
in the country back then?
>> Let's go back to sort of
Cold War, post-World War II.
World War II, yeah,
we had foo fighters.
OK, I've interviewed
former vets that
were flying in B-17s and
things that said, yeah, yeah,
we saw those things.
Yeah, we thought it
was the other side.
And after the war, they
found out the other side
thought it was us.
You know, that kind of thing.
The more common aspect of UFOs
being reported in the last two
generations started
with us setting off
three nukes back in 1945, OK?
Within two years, we
suddenly had them on scale,
what they call the
massive wave of 1947, OK?
And that was a big deal.
What happened a few years
before the Roswell incident,
in 1938 on Halloween Eve, Orson
Welles at the CBS facilities
scared the snot
out of the country.
>> I've-- I never witnessed--
someone is crawling
out of the Earth,
something I can see coming
out of that black hole
through luminous disks.
The eyes.
>> So here we are in 1947.
We've got this wave
of UFOs going on.
Think about those guys.
Barely 10 years
before, talk of aliens
scared the heck
out of everybody.
So there was this whole idea
of maybe the American public
isn't ready for this.
>> Now in 2021, not only are
governments exploring space,
but private companies are
in their own space race.
Now that we appear to
be "ready for this,"
could we see disclosure
in our lifetime?
>> I think we will have to.
I think we've got so much
going on with our environment.
And two things the ETs who have
talked to people on the ground,
they said, take
care of your planet.
And that's been a
continuing thing.
And the other driving thing
is, they're very concerned
about the fact that we
have a proliferation
of nuclear weapons.
And our whole present-day
sighting thing
is driven by the fact that
we set off three nukes back
in 1945, and the aliens have
been very touchy about that,
OK?
They don't want us off this
rock with our current politics
and all that.
>> And there is hope.
With the latest
developments at NASA
and existing departments
within the agency,
we may see evidence
of off-planet life.
>> There's a whole division in
NASA that looked at the idea
of what some of these exoplanets
had for gravity and that kind
of thing and atmosphere.
They've gone out and
postulated what kinds of life
might survive in
those environments.
And it was very
creative how they
looked at it and a
very possible thing.
Because life always seems
to find a way, as they say.
>> For a new perspective,
this is "Gaia News."
For more information
on this topic,
check out this content on Gaia.
[MUSIC PLAYING]